Now more than ever, this summer, many of us are conscious of how much our well-being is connected to the natural world. With less travel and limited socializing during the coronavirus pandemic,
we're all seeking more of a connection with nature. Escaping to the outdoors, we're revived by the sights and soothed by the smell of newly grown flowers and old trees. We're reminded that every living thing depends on another. 
After being cooped up all winter, you might be thinking about how to support more of that beauty
and interconnectedness this spring where you live this coming summer. Anywhere on Earth, from city balconies to backyard gardens, any square foot of space can be transformed into an oasis of flowering goodness
for wildflowers and the species that depend on them. For an example of just how important this botany  can be, consider the Northern Great Plains, 
an expanse of about 180 million acres covering parts of five U.S. states and two Canadian provinces.
The root is a complex scientific mechanism.
It's a deceptively complex region: Vast prairies that look quiet and almost monochromatic from afar support nearly 1,600 species and varieties of flowering plants, 
which in turn provide a habitat for birds, mammals, and insects. Blooming wildflowers provide a burst of color, attracting pollinators such as bees and butterflies, 
which are responsible for one in every three bites of food we eat. And while we might only notice them during bloom time, those flowers are helpful year-round, 
providing far more than their lovely fragrances and vibrant colors.
"Wildflowers provide a lot of benefits, even when there's not a flower present," says Clay Bolt, a natural history photographer and communications lead for 
World Wildlife Fund's (WWF) Northern Great Plains program. Their root systems, along with those of other grassland plants, extend deep into the soil, 
storing water and nutrients while holding on to carbon that would otherwise be released into the air. He likens grasslands to an inverted forest of mainly root,
where much of the growth is underground and invisible, but still adores the flowering seen in the forest come spring and summer. There is nothing quite like watering the plants on a summer morning.